Google Gemini's new free updates are
insane, and today I'm going to walk you
through every single one of them. It's
been a really busy week for Gemini. And
they've just dropped the biggest AI
updates to maps, Docs, Sheets, and
Chrome all at the same time. And if you
use Google every day, your phone, your
browser, your documents, everything just
changed. We're talking about six massive
updates that rolled out this week.
Google Maps can now hold a full
conversation with you. So you can see an
example of how it works right here. And
basically the way you use Google maps is
very different now. So there's something
called ask maps which is a new way for
you to ask anything about anywhere with
help from the latest Gemini model. So
let's get straight into this. You can
see an example of how it works right
here. And they've talked about how they
are reimagining maps with Gemini. So
essentially you can now ask maps for
example okay you know where can I find
this? How can I get help from that? Blah
blah blah. and you can ask anything
about any place and this basically helps
you get help in real time from Google
Maps. So here's an example of ask maps
in action. So it's using an AI inside
Google maps and then you can get help
and support in real time, right? So for
example, if you're planning a trip and
you ask, I'm headed to the Grand Canyon,
Horseshoe Bend, and Coral Dunes, any
recommended stops along the way. You'll
get clear directions, ETAs, and insider
tips from real people. Right? So
basically planning out your route with
Google Maps is easier than ever before.
And this is a huge update that rolled
out to millions of people. Here's
another example right here. Right.
[snorts] So this is an interesting one.
If you're driving around or you're about
to go driving or something like that,
well, the map comes to life with a vivid
3D view that reflects the buildings,
overpasses, and terrain around you.
Right? So here's an example of it in
action. It's very immersive in terms of
navigation and it's one of the biggest
transformations of the navigation
experience inside Google maps. So some
huge updates to Google maps as you can
see right here and this immersive
navigation has already started rolling
out across the US and the availability
is expected to expand over the coming
months to iOS and Android devices um and
all sorts of cool stuff. Right. So,
here's another example of what it looks
like. And uh it's like a 3D game almost,
but it's real life and it's Google Maps
generated with AI. Super powerful
update. And that is just one of them.
Okay, so let's talk about this now.
First of all, you might be asking what
even is Google AI? So, Google is one of
the biggest technology companies in the
world. You probably use it every day to
search for things on the internet. But
now, Google is building something much
much more powerful, which is artificial
intelligence, right? An AI is like
teaching a computer to think, read, and
understand things just like a human
does. Now, Google's AI is Gemini. And
Gemini is like a super smart helper that
lives inside your phone, computer, and
apps. This week, Google made Gemini even
more powerful and released it in six big
ways. So, we've talked about Google
Maps, but essentially the app that you
use to get directions can now think and
answer more complex questions. So the
two biggest features are ask maps where
you can type or speak complex questions.
It uses AI to understand what you
actually want and
you can interact with it and it reads
millions of reviews and location data
instantly. It's perfect for trip
planning, restaurant hunting and travel
questions. And the next update is the
navigation update. So this is immersive
navigation and instead of just arrows on
a flat map, you now see a 3D view of
your route. It shows you exactly what
buildings, streets, and landmarks look
like, and it's way easier to follow than
old school turnbyturn directions. Next
up, we have the Google Docs, Sheets,
Slides, and Drive updates. Now, this was
a big one, too. Basically, what happened
here is that inside Google Docs, for
example, if we open up a new document,
you can see that we have this section at
the bottom that says write a document.
Now if we for example say okay write a
document about
the AI profit boardroom
my AI automation community
we can paste that in like so and that'll
begin to start collecting information
from Google Drive and my Gmail because
it's all linked inside my Google account
to generate the outputs right now this
is not just on Google Docs it's on
sheets slides and Google drive right so
new workspace, the set of apps millions
of businesses use for documents,
spreadsheets, and presentations now has
Gemini directly inside it. And you can
see that it's actually come up and
automated a full breakdown right here.
Right? And so what does this mean? Well,
imagine you're writing a business
proposal in Google Docs. Instead of
staring at a blank page, you type what
you need and Gemini writes the first
draft for you. So in Google Sheets,
Gemini can now look at your numbers and
explain what they mean in plain English.
In Google Slides, it can create entire
presentations from scratch with just one
sentence. In Google Drive, you can
search through all your files and show
you exactly what you need. So, the big
changes here are like Google Docs writes
first drafts for you. In Google Sheets,
it explains complex formulas and
automates spreadsheet layouts. In Google
Slides, you can build out the actual
creative. And then in Google Drive,
you've got smart search across all your
files. So, that's
the update number two. And then number
four, update number four is the Gemini
Embedding 2. This is an AI that
understands everything at once. Right
now, this is quite an interesting one.
If you've never seen this before, let me
talk you through it here. So,
essentially, Gemini embedding 2 is the
first natively multimodal embedding
model. Right? So, for example, if you're
using this inside OpenClaw, well, think
of it like a translator, right? So, when
you show a computer a photo, it doesn't
see it like you do, right? An embedding
model turns that photo into numbers the
computer can understand. Before you
needed different AI models for photos,
for text, for audio and video, and
everything else. But main thing is here
that with Gemini embedding, this is a
way of just doing this all in one go,
right? It's a natively multimodal model.
So what's new here? Well, Gemini
embedding 2 understands all of these in
one single model. So text, images,
videos, audio, documents, right? Now,
why does this matter? Well, imagine
you're searching your company's files
and the AI can search through your
videos, your documents, your photos, and
audio recordings all at once. You
wouldn't lose as much information. You
wouldn't waste hours searching for that
information you trying to find from like
6 months ago, right? This is really a
big improvement for content creators,
agencies, large teams. I know that
OpenClaw even embedded it recently
inside one of their recent updates which
means that OpenClaw can now search
through your chat conversation and look
for for example previous images you've
generated and that sort of thing or
audio messages and that. So it it
impacts everything even though it sounds
a little bit boring right embedding
model doesn't sound that fun but it
actually is a big improvement. So next
up let's talk about this. So there are
some spend caps for the Gemini API,
right? So you can just set a maximum
amount that you want to spend, which is
not a big deal to be honest, but that's
a quick one. And then finally, Gemini is
now inside Google Chrome, right? So what
happened here is Gemini is now built
directly inside the Google Chrome
browser on desktop computers. Now it's
rolling out to signed in people across
India, New Zealand, and Canada. More
countries and mobile support is coming
as well. But the main point here is if
we have a look here for example you can
see that this is beginning to roll out
on desktop um across many different
regions right so whilst you're browsing
the internet that means that for example
Gemini can summarize any web page in
seconds it could answer questions about
what you're reading help you write
emails reply to comments explain
complicated articles in simple language
and research topics without leaving your
tab so the browser used to be a window
to the web now it's a window to
intelligence as the Google Chrome team
said. So for business owners, this means
your team can now research faster, write
faster, and make decisions faster
without leaving their browser. No extra
tools needed. Now, if you want to
implement all of this stuff, we actually
have a 30-day business implementation
road map inside the notes from today.
And we also have 100 prompts and use
cases, for example, for Google Sheets,
Google Docs, etc. So, if you're
wondering, okay, like how can I actually
implement this? How can I save myself
time? Well, that's basically how you can
do it using these prompts in the 30-day
road map inside the video notes from
today in the AI profit boardroom. But
just to recap here for everyone
watching, all right, the big updates are
that Google maps can now understand
complex questions and show 3D roots,
right, which is powered by Gemini.
Google Workspace, so Google Doc, Sheets,
Slides, and Drive now has AI directly
inside it. And Gemini embedding 2 now
understands text, images, video, and
documents all in one model. And Gemini
is now inside Chrome. So your browser is
now an AI assistant and it's rolling out
across many different countries now. So
we are not just in the age of artificial
intelligence, we are in the age of
artificial advantage. And the businesses
who act now will be the ones who win.
Google just made AI faster, smarter,
cheaper, and more accessible than ever
before. Every single one of these
updates saves you time or resources. The
business that implements this in the
next 30 days will be months ahead of
their competition and the ones who wait
will be playing catchup. So the question
isn't whe to use AI. The question is how
fast can you start. So if you want all
the video notes from today, you can get
that inside the AI profit boardroom link
in the comments description or just go
to the arprofitboard.com. This is my AI
automation community that's focused on
helping you save time, grow and learn AI
automation. You can jump inside the
community here and ask questions, get
help and support, meet some awesome
people. You can also go inside the
calendar and jump on weekly coaching
calls. Additionally, we have over
137 pages of testimonials from people
winning with this stuff. You can see
some examples of testimonials right
here. And people are just getting
awesome results inside our school
communities, which is what we love to
see. But the main thing is like a lot of
people are getting awesome results with
this. and it's having a positive impact
across the world. So, you know, if you
want to join, link in the comment
description or just go to the
arpuffer.com. The other thing that I was
going to say is that you get access to
my best trainings inside the classroom
and you can meet people locally using
the map right here. Inside the
classroom, you'll get access to my
trainings on, for example, how to go
from beginner to expert with AI
automation in just 5 weeks and how to
build your first AI agent in under 5
minutes. You'll also learn get my best
playbooks for automating AI avatar
videos, Instagram shorts, newsletters,
Twitter, etc. And then additionally,
you'll get my daily updates inside this
section. Right? So, you'll, for example,
get my 6-hour course on OpenClaw,
another 3-hour course right here. We do
daily updates and new video tutorials
and step-by-step guides on the most
important updates that come out each
day. And it's a very, very active
community with new trainings added every
single day, so you never fall behind
again. Additionally, inside the agency
course, you can learn how to get more
clients. You can watch about the
coaching course if you miss him live.
You can learn how to rank number one
with AI SEO. And you can also learn how
to grow a YouTube channel based on
what's working for me with. So that's
all inside the AI profit boarding.
Thanks for watching.